**** *Label_EP2178461.txt *Country_EP *CIB3_A61-A61 *CIB1_A-A *CIB4_A61F-A61F *Date_2012 *Applicant_cohen-gilber *Kind_B1-A1-A1 *InventCountry_FR-FR *ApplCountry_FR-FR 
1. A zonal diffractive lens with phase reversal and with an alternation of optically active or "full" annular zones (2) and of optically inactive or "empty" annular zones (3), all of these annular zones being concentric or coaxial, characterized in thatthe "empty" annular zones (3) are occupied by an optically inactive "cement" that interconnects the "full" annular zones (2) in order to ensure the stability of these "full" annular zones (2).
2. The diffractive lens as claimed in claim 1, designed as an intracorneal lens, characterized in thatthe "cement" of the inactive or "empty" annular zones (3) has a permeability to nutrients and to oxygen that is comparable to the permeability of the corneal tissue and has an optical index close to that of the cornea.
3. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 2, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) have a different optical index compared to the empty annular zones (3), such that the optical index of the full annular zones (2) is greater than that of the empty annular zones (3).
4. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 2, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) have a different optical index compared to the empty annular zones (3), such that the optical index of the full annular zones (2) is less than that of the empty annular zones (3).
5. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 3 or 4, characterized in thatthe "empty" annular zones (3) are filled by a hydrogel which has a high water content and which is permeable but optically inactive and constitutes the "cement" interconnecting the "full" annular zones (2).
6. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 5, characterized in thatthe hydrogel that serves as a "cement" connecting the "full" annular zones (2) is a hydrogel whose percentage of water is equal to or greater than 78%.
7. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 6, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are also made of a hydrogel whose percentage of water is less than 78%, preferably between 50 and 70%.
8. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 6, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are also made of a hydrogel whose percentage of water is greater than 78%, preferably greater than 85%, or are even formed by water.
9. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 2 to 8, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are not only connected by the parts made of permeable hydrogel but are also coated by parts made of the same hydrogel.
10. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in thatit comprises, at its center, a profiled disk (4) made of the same active material as the "full" annular zones (2) and surrounded concentrically or coaxially by these "full" annular zones (2), the central disk (4) constituting an optically active zone in the manner of a first ring with an inner radius of zero.
11. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in thatit comprises, at its center, an "empty" and therefore optically inactive circular zone (5), which is surrounded concentrically by the first "full" annular zone (2).
12. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 10 or 11, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2), and if appropriate the central disk (4), are connected by a fine membrane (6) made of the same optically active material, said membrane (6) remaining permeable to nutrients because of its very slight thickness.
13. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 10 or 11, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2), and if appropriate the central disk (4), are connected by material bridges (7) whose general orientation is radial and which are made of the same optically active material, said material bridges (7) extending across the "empty" annular zones (3).
14. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 13, characterized in thatit is produced as a bifocal lens designed to correct presbyopia.
**** *Label_GB1343301.txt *Country_G *CIB3_B24-B29 *CIB1_B *CIB4_B24B-B29D *Date_1974 *Applicant_essilor-int *Kind_A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_empty 
the appended Claims, especially as regards
the centering of the lens on the machining device, it being also possible to effect this centering by a focal distance meter To this end, and in accordance with an alternative embodiment (not shown), the spindles 12, 17 are bored axially along their length and there is placed at the extremity of one of these spindles the eye-piece of a focal distance meter, and at the end of the other spindle, the glass-carrier of this focal distance meter.
Furthermore, in the preceding text, the dousing of the lens with a freezing fluid is effected by the fluid falling under simple gravity In an alternative embodiment this dousing can be effected by a jet of this fluid under pressure The essential is maintaining the whole unit which secures the lens, at a low temperature so as to prevent the lens heating up by the operation of the unit to a temperature at which the lens is no longer hard enough for machining.
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:1 A method of machining the peripheral edge of a contact lens of flexible plastics material comprising placing the lens between two rotating coaxial spindles of which at least one is a driving spindle, centering the lens with respect to the spindles, bringing the spindles close to each other to grip the lens, supporting one of the faces of the lens by an annular supporting member, setting at least the driving spindle in rotation, spraying the lens thus supported by a jet of freezing fluid to ensure hardening of the lens, withdrawing the supporting member, and machining the peripheral edge of the lens.
2 A method according to claim 1 wherein the diameter of the lens is reduced before the peripheral edge thereof is machined 70 3 A method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the lens is centered by a sleeve slidably mounted on one of the spindles.
4 A method according to claim 1, wherein to facilitate the lens centering, the lens 75 is provided with an integrally moulded peripheral reinforcing shoulder.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the lens is centered by a focal distance meter disposed in the axis of the rotating 80 spindles, the spindles being axially bored for that purpose.
6 A method according to claims 1 to 5 wherein the diameter of the lens is previously reduced to size by punching it out 85 on a focal distance meter, the focal distance meter having permitted the centering of the lens with respect to its optical centre prior to the reduction in lens diameter.
7 A method according to claim 1, where 90 in the running-up to speed of the driving spindle is effected in two stages, first at reduced speed, lower than 1,000 r.p m for example, for complete cooling of the lens by the cooling fluid, and then 95 at full speed, higher than 15,000 r p m for example, for reducing the diameter and machining of the lens.
8 A method according to claims 1 and 7 wherein the cooling fluid is constituted 100 by a liquefied gas at a temperature lower than -100  C, such as liquid air or liquid nitrogen.
9 A method of machining the edge of a contact lens of flexible plastics material 105 substantially as herein described with reference to Figs 1 to 3 A and 3 A or Fig 4 of the accompanying drawings.
A device for machinirg a contact lens of flexible material, comprising two 110 coaxial rotatable spindles, at least one of which is a driving spindle, and one of which is moveable axially with respect to the other, a centering sleeve slidably mounted on one spindle, an annular supporting 115 member slidably mounted on the other spindle, at least one nozzle for applying a spray for freezing the lens, and a toolcarrier slide.
11 A device according to claim 10 120 wherein a diameter-reduction tool carrier slide is provided.
12 A device according to claim 10 or 11 wherein the centering sleeve comprises an annular internal housing complementary 125 to the peripheral contour of the lens to be machined.
13 A device according to claim 12 wherein the supporting face of the annular member is chosen so as to have a radius 130 f 1,343,301 substantially equal to the radius of the corresponding face of the-lens to be machined, and is preferably made from a relatively-soft material such as synthetic material.
14 A device according to any of claims to 13 wherein the annular supporting member is freely mounted for rotation on a supporting sleeve slidably mounted on the associated rotating spindle, and the annular supporting member is formed for example by a metallic supporting ring and a supporting member of synthetic material.
A device according to any one of claims 10 to 14 in combination with means for effecting initial reduction of the lens, diameter comprising a retractable punchingout device, the punching-out device being rotatably mounted between a work position where it is centered along the axis of the focal distance meter and a rest position wherein it is spaced from the axis and mounted for axial movement.
16 A device for machining the edge of contact lenses of flexible material, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figs 1 to 3 A to 3 D or Fig 4 of the accompanying drawings.
PAGE, WHITE & FARRER, Chartered Patent Agents, 27 Chancery Lane, London, WC 2 A INT.
Agents for the Applicants.
Printed for Her Majesty's Stationery Office by Burgess & Son (Abingdon), Ltd -1974.
Published at The Patent Offoce, 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC 2 A l AY, from which copies may be obtained.
**** *Label_GB1372816.txt *Country_G *CIB3_B24-B29 *CIB1_B *CIB4_B24B-B29D *Date_1974 *Applicant_essilor-int *Kind_A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_empty 
WHAT WE CLAIM IS: -
1 A method of working the peripheral portion of a flexible contact lens, comprising gripping a flexible contact lens blank between 115 a pair of coaxial rotary spindles, rotating the spindles, and bringing into contact with the lens blank a flat abrasive working surface disposed obliquely with respect to the axes of the spindles and normal to the peripheral 120 edge of the lens blank, the arrangement being such that the peripheral portion of the lens blank is so deformed by contact with the working surface that it periodically reverses itself under deformation by pressure of the 125 surface so that the opposed faces of the peripheral zone of the sides of the lens blank are alternately abraded to provide the lens with 1,372,816 an edge having a satisfactory wearer tolerance level.
2 A method according to claim 1 wherein the steps are repeated with another working surface comprising an abrasive material finer than that of the first working surface.
3 An apparatus for working the peripheral portion of a flexible contact lens blank, comprising a pair of coaxial rotary spindles axially movable relative to each other for gripping and rotating a flexible contact lens blank therebetween, and a flat working surface disposed obliquely with respect to the axis of the spindles and mounted for movement relative to the rotary spindles in a direction normal to the working surface.
4 A method of working the peripheral portion of a flexible contact lens substantially as described herein and illustrated in accompanying drawings.
An apparatus for working the peripheral portion of a flexible contact lens substantially as described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
PAGE, WHITE & FARRER Chartered Patent Agents 27 Chancery Lane, London WG 2 A INT Agents for the Applicants Printed for Her Majesty's Stationery Office, by the Courier Press, Leamington Spa, 1974.
Published by The Patent Office 25 Southampton Buildings, London, WC 2 A l AY, from which copies may be obtained.
**** *Label_WO2007091761.txt *Country_W *CIB3_G02 *CIB1_G *CIB4_G02B *Date_2007 *Applicant_top-eng-co-l *Kind_A1 *InventCountry_K-R *ApplCountry_K-R 
Claims
1. An apparatus for assembling a front panel with a liquid lens, the body of which includes a liquid filling portion, has a rear panel provided below thereof and is inclined at a given angle, the apparatus comprising: a vacuum nozzle unit for adsorbing the front panel; a vacuum nozzle control unit for controlling the adsorption force of the vacuum nozzle; a Z-axis motor for moving the vacuum nozzle upward and downward; a control unit for controlling the operation of the Z- axis motor; and a ball joint unit, which is located between the vacuum nozzle and the front panel and maintained the inclination of the front panel with the same the inclination of the body of the liquid lens, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body of the liquid lens.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, which further comprises a means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body by means of the ball joint unit.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the means for preventing the front panel from bein< downward is a motor overload-sensing unit for sensing the overload state of the motor.
4. The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the front panel is made of a transparent plastic or glass material .
5. A method for assembling a front panel with a liquid lens, the body of which includes a liquid filling portion, has a rear panel provided below thereof and is inclined at a given angle, the method comprising the steps of: moving the front panel downward and bringing the front panel into complete contact with the upper surface of the body using a predetermined angle; moving the front panel upward while maintaining the inclination of the front panel; filling liquids in the liquid filling portion and applying a sealing agent on the upper surface of the body; and moving the front panel downward so as to assemble the front panel with the body.
6. The method of Claim 5, which further comprises the steps of: curing the sealing agent; thermally curing the cured sealing agent; and cooling the thermally cured sealing agent in air at room temperature.
7. The method of Claim 5, wherein the contact between the front panel and the upper surface of the inclined body is performed by means of a ball joint unit, which is located between a vacuum nozzle and a front panel and serves to maintain the inclination of the front panel .
8. The method of Claim 5, which further comprises a means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body by means of the ball joint unit.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward is a motor overload-sensing unit for sensing the overload state of the motor.
**** *Label_WO2007091771.txt *Country_W *CIB3_G02 *CIB1_G *CIB4_G02B *Date_2007 *Applicant_top-eng-co-l *Kind_A1 *InventCountry_K-R *ApplCountry_K-R 
Claims 
[I] A method of inspecting a liquid lens, comprising: moving the liquid lens to a predetermined position to inspect the liquid lens; measuring the liquid lens using a measurement sensor relatively movable with respect to the liquid lens; and determining whether the liquid lens is effectively adhered on the basis of data measured by the measurement sensor. [2] The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining whether all of the liquid lenses to be inspected have been through a process of determining whether the liquid lens is manufactured in a normal state. [3] The method according to claim 1, further comprising handling a defective liquid lens to be separated from normal liquid lenses. [4] The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein measuring the liquid lens comprises measuring a spread of the liquid when a lens body and a cover glass of the liquid lens are adhered to each other. [5] The method according to claim 4, wherein determining the effective adhesion of the liquid lens comprises directly comparing a measurement value of the spread of the liquid with a spread of a liquid of a normal liquid lens. [6] The method according to claim 4, wherein determining the effective adhesion of the liquid lens comprises calculating a space between the lens body and the cover glass according to the measured spread of the liquid, and comparing the calculated space with a space of the lens body and the cover glass of the normal liquid lens. [7] The method according to claim 4, wherein measuring the spread of the liquid comprises measuring a distance of the liquid moved from a center of the liquid lens toward a periphery of a rim of the liquid lens. [8] The method according to claim 4, wherein measuring the spread of the liquid comprises obtaining an image of the liquid lens when seen from a plan view, and determining the effective adhesion of the liquid lens comprises comparing the obtained image of the liquid lens with an image of a normal liquid lens. [9] The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein measuring the liquid lens comprises directly measuring a space between the liquid lens body and the cover glass of the liquid lens. [10] The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein measuring the liquid lens comprises measuring a brightness of the liquid accommodated in the liquid lens. 
[I I] An apparatus for inspecting a liquid lens comprising: a moving device for moving the liquid lens to a predetermined position to inspect the liquid lens; a measurement sensor relatively movable with respect to the liquid lens and measuring the liquid lens; and a controller for processing data measured by the measurement sensor and determining whether the liquid lens is effectively adhered. [12] The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a device for handling a defective liquid lens to be separated from normal liquid lenses. [13] The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an intermediate connection member for connecting the liquid lens to the moving device to move the liquid lens together with the moving device. [14] The apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the measurement sensor is an image processor for photographing the liquid lens to obtain data thereof. [15] The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the measurement sensor measures a spread of the liquid when a lens body and a cover glass of the liquid lens are adhered to each other. [16] The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the defective lens handling device makes a recognition mark on a surface of the defective liquid lens. [17] The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the defective lens handling device individually recognizes a recognition number given to each liquid lens, and stores and manages inspection data of each liquid lens. [18] The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the intermediate connection member comprises a tray to which the liquid lens is directly fixed, and a stage on which the tray is installed. [19] The apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a first fixing device for fixing the liquid lens to the tray, and a second fixing device for fixing the tray to the stage. [20] A method of fabricating a liquid lens, comprising: filling at least two liquids having different properties into a liquid receptacle formed in a lens body; adhering a cover glass to the lens body corresponding thereto measuring the liquid lens using a measurement sensor after adhering the cover glass to the lens body; and determining whether the cover glass is effectively adhered to the lens body on the basis of data measured by the measurement sensor. [21] The method according to claim 20, wherein measuring the liquid lens comprises measuring a spread of the liquid flowed from the liquid receptacle when the liquid lens is adhered. [22] The method according to claim 20, wherein measuring the liquid lens comprises measuring a brightness of the liquid accommodated in the liquid lens. [23] The method according to claim 20, wherein measuring the liquid lens is performed by directly measuring a space between the lens body and the cover glass. [24] The method according to any one of claims 20 to 23, further comprising supplying a sealant between the lens body and the cover glass adhered to each other.
**** *Label_WO2007108663.txt *Country_W *CIB3_G02 *CIB1_G *CIB4_G02B *Date_2007 *Applicant_ind-academic *Kind_A1 *InventCountry_K-R *ApplCountry_K-R 
[CLAIMS] [Claim 1 ] 
A fresnel lens arranged in front of a light emitting diode to convert an optical path of light emitted from the light emitting diode, a draft angle of the fresnel lens being identical to a radiation angle of the light whose optical path is converted by the fresnel lens. [Claim 2] 
An LED illuminating device comprising: a light emitting diode; and a fresnel lens arranged in front of the light emitting diode to convert an optical path of light emitted from the light emitting diode, wherein the fresnel lens has a draft angle identical to a radiation angle of the LED illuminating device. [Claim 3] The LED illuminating device according to claim 2, wherein the light emitting diode includes a blue light emitting diode for emitting blue light, the LED illuminating device further comprising: a fluorescent layer covering the light emitting diode and containing a cerium doped yttrium aluminum garnet(YAG:Ce) fluorescent material, the light emitted from the light emitting diode going through the fluorescent layer; and a light emitting diode cup in which the light emitting diode is placed, the light emitting diode cup reflecting light emitted laterally from the light emitting diode, in a forward direction.
