**** *Label_GB1506082.txt *Country_G *CIB3_A61 *CIB1_A *CIB4_A61M *Date_1978 *Applicant_boc-internat *Kind_A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_empty 
**WARNING** start of CLMS field may overlap end of DESC **.
during use of the aspirator, fluid drawn up through a catheter 34 is collected. A rubber gasket 24 provides an air-tight seal between the jar 23 and the casing.
The side branch of the coupling 14 is attached to a conduit 26 which passes in fluid-tight manner through an orifice 28 (Figure 1) in the floor of the casing 1 into the interior of jar 23. A connector piece 40, which fits into circular recesses 36, 38 in the front lid 5 and lower portion 3 of the casing respectively, connects the catheter 34 (functioning as a probe) to a conduit 30 which passes out of jar 23 in air-tight manner through a second opening 32 in the floor of the casing 1.
In use, depression of a trigger 42 closes an electrical circuit and actuates the motor 20 to drive the pump 12. Under the action of the pump, liquid from the reservoir 2 flows along conduit 8, through the main pipe of the coupling 14 to the chamber of the pump 12 and then returns to reservoir 2 along the return conduit 16. The flow of liquid along the main pipe of the coupling produces a reduced pressure in conduit 26 which is transmitted through the jar 23 to the catheter 34. Application of the free end of the catheter to a patient's body cavity containing mucus, blood or like liquid, which it is desired to remove, results in the liquid being sucked through the catheter 34 via the conduit 30 into the jar 23 where it collects.
Release of the trigger 42 results in cessation of the action of the pump <RTI>12</RTI>  by breaking the electrial circuit of the motor 20.
When an operator had finished using the aspirator, the jar 23 may be removed and the liquid collected therein descarded, the jar being replaced after suitable cleansing treatment.
The liquid in the reservour 2 would normally be water, preferably containing a sterilising agent. However, it will be appreciated that other liquids could be used.
Similarly, jets of sizes other that those stated above can be used in the coupling 14.
As body liquids are being aspirator, they tend to entrain air with them. The resultant mixture tends to become separated in the jar 23, with most of the liquid remaining in the jar and the air passing on to the jet pump formed by the coupling 14. The air passes from the coupling 14 along the supply conduit 8 and into the reservoir 2. There it rises to the surface and is vented to the atmosphere by any suitable means (not shown) to prevent pressure from building up in the reservoir.
Instead of the jet pump arrangement in the coupling 14 a venturi device could be provided to produce the required reduced pressure in the conduit 26.
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
1. A portable aspirator including a pump, a motor capable of being powered by batteries for driving the pump, a reservoir for containing a liquid, a supply conduit leading from the reservoir to the pump and a return conduit leading from the pump to the reservoir, such that the pump; in operation, causes a continuous circulation of liquid from the reservoir to the pump and back again, and a probe connected to means coupled to one of the conduits for creating a reduced pressure in the probe on the passage, in use, of liquid through the respective conduit.
2. An aspirator according to claim 1, wherein the means for creating the reduced pressure is a jet pump device in the form of a main pipe having a side branch, and at least one jet with a passage of predetermined size placed in the main pipe so as to produce a subatmospheric pressure in the side branch, the device being positioned in one of the conduits so that in use, the liquid flowing in the conduit also flows along the main pipe.
3. An aspirator according to claim 2, wherein the jet pump device is positioned in the supply conduit.
4. An aspirator according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the main pipe and the side branch are perpendicular to one another to form a T-shaped coupling.
5. An aspirator according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the means for creating the reduced pressure is a venturi device.
6. An aspirator according to any preceding claim, wherein a collecting receptacle is connected between the probe and the said reduced pressure producing means.
7. An aspirator as claimed in claim 6, in which the receptacle acts as a handle, being attached to a housing for the pump, motor, batteries and reservoir.
8. A portable aspirator substantially as herein described with reference to, and as shown in, the accompanying drawings.