**** *Label_EP2178461.txt *Country_EP *CIB3_A61-A61 *CIB1_A-A *CIB4_A61F-A61F *Date_2012 *Applicant_cohen-gilber *Kind_B1-A1-A1 *InventCountry_FR-FR *ApplCountry_FR-FR 
1. A zonal diffractive lens with phase reversal and with an alternation of optically active or "full" annular zones (2) and of optically inactive or "empty" annular zones (3), all of these annular zones being concentric or coaxial, characterized in thatthe "empty" annular zones (3) are occupied by an optically inactive "cement" that interconnects the "full" annular zones (2) in order to ensure the stability of these "full" annular zones (2).
2. The diffractive lens as claimed in claim 1, designed as an intracorneal lens, characterized in thatthe "cement" of the inactive or "empty" annular zones (3) has a permeability to nutrients and to oxygen that is comparable to the permeability of the corneal tissue and has an optical index close to that of the cornea.
3. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 2, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) have a different optical index compared to the empty annular zones (3), such that the optical index of the full annular zones (2) is greater than that of the empty annular zones (3).
4. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 2, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) have a different optical index compared to the empty annular zones (3), such that the optical index of the full annular zones (2) is less than that of the empty annular zones (3).
5. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 3 or 4, characterized in thatthe "empty" annular zones (3) are filled by a hydrogel which has a high water content and which is permeable but optically inactive and constitutes the "cement" interconnecting the "full" annular zones (2).
6. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 5, characterized in thatthe hydrogel that serves as a "cement" connecting the "full" annular zones (2) is a hydrogel whose percentage of water is equal to or greater than 78%.
7. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 6, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are also made of a hydrogel whose percentage of water is less than 78%, preferably between 50 and 70%.
8. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 6, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are also made of a hydrogel whose percentage of water is greater than 78%, preferably greater than 85%, or are even formed by water.
9. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 2 to 8, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2) are not only connected by the parts made of permeable hydrogel but are also coated by parts made of the same hydrogel.
10. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in thatit comprises, at its center, a profiled disk (4) made of the same active material as the "full" annular zones (2) and surrounded concentrically or coaxially by these "full" annular zones (2), the central disk (4) constituting an optically active zone in the manner of a first ring with an inner radius of zero.
11. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in thatit comprises, at its center, an "empty" and therefore optically inactive circular zone (5), which is surrounded concentrically by the first "full" annular zone (2).
12. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 10 or 11, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2), and if appropriate the central disk (4), are connected by a fine membrane (6) made of the same optically active material, said membrane (6) remaining permeable to nutrients because of its very slight thickness.
13. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in claim 10 or 11, characterized in thatthe "full" annular zones (2), and if appropriate the central disk (4), are connected by material bridges (7) whose general orientation is radial and which are made of the same optically active material, said material bridges (7) extending across the "empty" annular zones (3).
14. The intracorneal diffractive lens as claimed in one of claims 1 to 13, characterized in thatit is produced as a bifocal lens designed to correct presbyopia.