**** *Label_GB1343301.txt *Country_G *CIB3_B24-B29 *CIB1_B *CIB4_B24B-B29D *Date_1974 *Applicant_essilor-int *Kind_A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_empty 
the appended Claims, especially as regards
the centering of the lens on the machining device, it being also possible to effect this centering by a focal distance meter To this end, and in accordance with an alternative embodiment (not shown), the spindles 12, 17 are bored axially along their length and there is placed at the extremity of one of these spindles the eye-piece of a focal distance meter, and at the end of the other spindle, the glass-carrier of this focal distance meter.
Furthermore, in the preceding text, the dousing of the lens with a freezing fluid is effected by the fluid falling under simple gravity In an alternative embodiment this dousing can be effected by a jet of this fluid under pressure The essential is maintaining the whole unit which secures the lens, at a low temperature so as to prevent the lens heating up by the operation of the unit to a temperature at which the lens is no longer hard enough for machining.
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:1 A method of machining the peripheral edge of a contact lens of flexible plastics material comprising placing the lens between two rotating coaxial spindles of which at least one is a driving spindle, centering the lens with respect to the spindles, bringing the spindles close to each other to grip the lens, supporting one of the faces of the lens by an annular supporting member, setting at least the driving spindle in rotation, spraying the lens thus supported by a jet of freezing fluid to ensure hardening of the lens, withdrawing the supporting member, and machining the peripheral edge of the lens.
2 A method according to claim 1 wherein the diameter of the lens is reduced before the peripheral edge thereof is machined 70 3 A method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the lens is centered by a sleeve slidably mounted on one of the spindles.
4 A method according to claim 1, wherein to facilitate the lens centering, the lens 75 is provided with an integrally moulded peripheral reinforcing shoulder.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the lens is centered by a focal distance meter disposed in the axis of the rotating 80 spindles, the spindles being axially bored for that purpose.
6 A method according to claims 1 to 5 wherein the diameter of the lens is previously reduced to size by punching it out 85 on a focal distance meter, the focal distance meter having permitted the centering of the lens with respect to its optical centre prior to the reduction in lens diameter.
7 A method according to claim 1, where 90 in the running-up to speed of the driving spindle is effected in two stages, first at reduced speed, lower than 1,000 r.p m for example, for complete cooling of the lens by the cooling fluid, and then 95 at full speed, higher than 15,000 r p m for example, for reducing the diameter and machining of the lens.
8 A method according to claims 1 and 7 wherein the cooling fluid is constituted 100 by a liquefied gas at a temperature lower than -100  C, such as liquid air or liquid nitrogen.
9 A method of machining the edge of a contact lens of flexible plastics material 105 substantially as herein described with reference to Figs 1 to 3 A and 3 A or Fig 4 of the accompanying drawings.
A device for machinirg a contact lens of flexible material, comprising two 110 coaxial rotatable spindles, at least one of which is a driving spindle, and one of which is moveable axially with respect to the other, a centering sleeve slidably mounted on one spindle, an annular supporting 115 member slidably mounted on the other spindle, at least one nozzle for applying a spray for freezing the lens, and a toolcarrier slide.
11 A device according to claim 10 120 wherein a diameter-reduction tool carrier slide is provided.
12 A device according to claim 10 or 11 wherein the centering sleeve comprises an annular internal housing complementary 125 to the peripheral contour of the lens to be machined.
13 A device according to claim 12 wherein the supporting face of the annular member is chosen so as to have a radius 130 f 1,343,301 substantially equal to the radius of the corresponding face of the-lens to be machined, and is preferably made from a relatively-soft material such as synthetic material.
14 A device according to any of claims to 13 wherein the annular supporting member is freely mounted for rotation on a supporting sleeve slidably mounted on the associated rotating spindle, and the annular supporting member is formed for example by a metallic supporting ring and a supporting member of synthetic material.
A device according to any one of claims 10 to 14 in combination with means for effecting initial reduction of the lens, diameter comprising a retractable punchingout device, the punching-out device being rotatably mounted between a work position where it is centered along the axis of the focal distance meter and a rest position wherein it is spaced from the axis and mounted for axial movement.
16 A device for machining the edge of contact lenses of flexible material, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figs 1 to 3 A to 3 D or Fig 4 of the accompanying drawings.
PAGE, WHITE & FARRER, Chartered Patent Agents, 27 Chancery Lane, London, WC 2 A INT.
Agents for the Applicants.
Printed for Her Majesty's Stationery Office by Burgess & Son (Abingdon), Ltd -1974.
Published at The Patent Offoce, 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC 2 A l AY, from which copies may be obtained.