**** *Label_WO2007091761.txt *Country_W *CIB3_G02 *CIB1_G *CIB4_G02B *Date_2007 *Applicant_top-eng-co-l *Kind_A1 *InventCountry_K-R *ApplCountry_K-R 
Claims
1. An apparatus for assembling a front panel with a liquid lens, the body of which includes a liquid filling portion, has a rear panel provided below thereof and is inclined at a given angle, the apparatus comprising: a vacuum nozzle unit for adsorbing the front panel; a vacuum nozzle control unit for controlling the adsorption force of the vacuum nozzle; a Z-axis motor for moving the vacuum nozzle upward and downward; a control unit for controlling the operation of the Z- axis motor; and a ball joint unit, which is located between the vacuum nozzle and the front panel and maintained the inclination of the front panel with the same the inclination of the body of the liquid lens, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body of the liquid lens.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, which further comprises a means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body by means of the ball joint unit.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the means for preventing the front panel from bein< downward is a motor overload-sensing unit for sensing the overload state of the motor.
4. The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the front panel is made of a transparent plastic or glass material .
5. A method for assembling a front panel with a liquid lens, the body of which includes a liquid filling portion, has a rear panel provided below thereof and is inclined at a given angle, the method comprising the steps of: moving the front panel downward and bringing the front panel into complete contact with the upper surface of the body using a predetermined angle; moving the front panel upward while maintaining the inclination of the front panel; filling liquids in the liquid filling portion and applying a sealing agent on the upper surface of the body; and moving the front panel downward so as to assemble the front panel with the body.
6. The method of Claim 5, which further comprises the steps of: curing the sealing agent; thermally curing the cured sealing agent; and cooling the thermally cured sealing agent in air at room temperature.
7. The method of Claim 5, wherein the contact between the front panel and the upper surface of the inclined body is performed by means of a ball joint unit, which is located between a vacuum nozzle and a front panel and serves to maintain the inclination of the front panel .
8. The method of Claim 5, which further comprises a means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward, once the front panel is brought into complete contact with the upper surface of the body by means of the ball joint unit.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the means for preventing the front panel from being further moved downward is a motor overload-sensing unit for sensing the overload state of the motor.