**** *Label_GB1506082.txt *Country_G *CIB3_A61 *CIB1_A *CIB4_A61M *Date_1978 *Applicant_boc-internat *Kind_A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_empty 
(54) PORTABLE ASPIRATOR
(71) We, BOC INTERNATIONAL
LIMITED, an English company of Hammersmith House, London, W6 9DX, do hereby declare the invention, for which we pray that a patent may be granted to us, and the method by which it is to be performed, to be particularly described in and by the following statement:~
This invention relates to an aspirator which is readily portable, particularly for removing blood, mucus or other fluids from a patient's airway or similar body cavity.
Several portable aspirators, particularly for use in respiratory emergencies, are known, but these have certain disadvantages. Thus, hand-operated bulb suckers are difficult to control, tiring to use and do not usually give sufficiently adequate performance. Foot-operated suckers are difficult to operate in confined spaces, e.g. in a moving ambulance. Aspirators operated by 12-volt car accumulators are heavy and not easily movable from place to place.
The present invention seeks to provide an aspirator which is readily portable, compact and easy to operate, even in confined spaces.
According to the invention there is provided a portable aspirator which is as claimed in the appended claims.
One embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a plan view of a portable aspirator according to the invvention with the lids thereof removed;
Figure 2 is an elevation of the aspirator of
Figure 1 shown partly in section and partly in cut-away elevation; and
Figure 3 is a diagrammatic exploded view of the aspirator of Figure 1.
In the Figures, like reference numerals denote like parts.
In the drawings is shown a portable aspirator including an outer casing 1 having a lower portion 3, a front lid 5 and a rear lid 7. The lower portion 3 of the casing holds a reservior 2 having a circular opening 4 through which a liquid can be introduced into the reservoir or removed from it. The periphery of the opening 4 is formed into a lip 9 which protrudes through the front lid 5 to receive a cap 6. In order to make the aspirator as compact as possible, it is desirable to use a reservoir of a shape which makes maximum possible use of the space available.
A displacement pump 12, e.g. of the type used in motor vehicle windscreen washer systems, is connected to the reservoir 2 by a conduit 8 via a T-shaped junction coupling 14 comprising a main pipe and a side branch perpendicular thereto. The end of the main pipe closest to the reservoir is provided with a jet having a nozzle 0.05 in. in diameter, while the end of the main pipe closest to the pump is provided with a jet 0.125 in. in diameter. The end of the side branch has a jet which is 0.025 in. in diameter. In this way, a jet pump is formed in the coupling.
A return conduit 16 leads from an outlet 18 of the pump 12 back to reservoir 2. The pump 12 is in use driven by a DC motor 20 held in a recess in the floor of the lower portion 3 of the casting. The motor is powered by eight 1.5 volt alkaline cells 21 held in a chamber 22 provided at one end of the casing 1. Access to chamber 22 can be gained by removal of the rear lid 7 from the casing.
The lower portion 3 of the casing 1 has an intergral external cylindrical flange 25 surrounding an aperture and is adapted to receive, e.g. by means of screw threads, the mouth of a jar 23 made of plastics or other suitable material. The jar 23 services a dual purpose: it acts as a handle by means of which the aspirator can be held by an operator and also acts as a trap in which,  during use of the aspirator, fluid drawn up through a catheter 34 is collected. A rubber gasket 24 provides an air-tight seal between the jar 23 and the casing.
The side branch of the coupling 14 is attached to a conduit 26 which passes in fluid-tight manner through an orifice 28 (Figure 1) in the floor of the casing 1 into the interior of jar 23. A connector piece 40, which fits into circular recesses 36, 38 in the front lid 5 and lower portion 3 of the casing respectively, connects the catheter 34 (functioning as a probe) to a conduit 30 which passes out of jar 23 in air-tight manner through a second opening 32 in the floor of the casing 1.
In use, depression of a trigger 42 closes an electrical circuit and actuates the motor 20 to drive the pump 12. Under the action of the pump, liquid from the reservoir 2 flows along conduit 8, through the main pipe of the coupling 14 to the chamber of the pump 12 and then returns to reservoir 2 along the return conduit 16. The flow of liquid along the main pipe of the coupling produces a reduced pressure in conduit 26 which is transmitted through the jar 23 to the catheter 34. Application of the free end of the catheter to a patient's body cavity containing mucus, blood or like liquid, which it is desired to remove, results in the liquid being sucked through the catheter 34 via the conduit 30 into the jar 23 where it collects.
Release of the trigger 42 results in cessation of the action of the pump <RTI>12</RTI>  by breaking the electrial circuit of the motor 20.
When an operator had finished using the aspirator, the jar 23 may be removed and the liquid collected therein descarded, the jar being replaced after suitable cleansing treatment.
The liquid in the reservour 2 would normally be water, preferably containing a sterilising agent. However, it will be appreciated that other liquids could be used.
Similarly, jets of sizes other that those stated above can be used in the coupling 14.
As body liquids are being aspirator, they tend to entrain air with them. The resultant mixture tends to become separated in the jar 23, with most of the liquid remaining in the jar and the air passing on to the jet pump formed by the coupling 14. The air passes from the coupling 14 along the supply conduit 8 and into the reservoir 2. There it rises to the surface and is vented to the atmosphere by any suitable means (not shown) to prevent pressure from building up in the reservoir.
Instead of the jet pump arrangement in the coupling 14 a venturi device could be provided to produce the required reduced pressure in the conduit 26.
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
1. A portable aspirator including a pump, a motor capable of being powered by batteries for driving the pump, a reservoir for containing a liquid, a supply conduit leading from the reservoir to the pump and a return conduit leading from the pump to the reservoir, such that the pump; in operation, causes a continuous circulation of liquid from the reservoir to the pump and back again, and a probe connected to means coupled to one of the conduits for creating a reduced pressure in the probe on the passage, in use, of liquid through the respective conduit.
2. An aspirator according to claim 1, wherein the means for creating the reduced pressure is a jet pump device in the form of a main pipe having a side branch, and at least one jet with a passage of predetermined size placed in the main pipe so as to produce a subatmospheric pressure in the side branch, the device being positioned in one of the conduits so that in use, the liquid flowing in the conduit also flows along the main pipe.
3. An aspirator according to claim 2, wherein the jet pump device is positioned in the supply conduit.
4. An aspirator according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the main pipe and the side branch are perpendicular to one another to form a T-shaped coupling.
5. An aspirator according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the means for creating the reduced pressure is a venturi device.
6. An aspirator according to any preceding claim, wherein a collecting receptacle is connected between the probe and the said reduced pressure producing means.
7. An aspirator as claimed in claim 6, in which the receptacle acts as a handle, being attached to a housing for the pump, motor, batteries and reservoir.
8. A portable aspirator substantially as herein described with reference to, and as shown in, the accompanying drawings.
**WARNING** end of DESC field may overlap start of CLMS **.