**** *Label_GB2206978.txt *Country_GB *CIB3_G02-G02 *CIB1_G-G *CIB4_G02C-G02C *Date_1991 *Applicant_essilor-int- *Kind_B-A-A *InventCountry_empty *ApplCountry_F-R 
1 2 MULTIFOCAL OPHTHALMIC LENS The present invention relates to a
multifocal ophthalmic lens of the type comprising an aspherical surface having a first vision zone for far vision, a second vision zone for near vision, and between said zones, a third vision zone for intermediate vision, with its curvature varying progressively along a main meridian curve of power progression, the first and third vision zones being delimited by a first curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a first point, and the second and third vision zones being delimited by a second curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a second point.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Multifocal ophthalmic lenses are now well known. They are normally used for correcting preasbyopia, while enabling the wearer of spectacles to observe objects over a wide range of distances, without requiring to remove the spectacles to see distant objects. In conventional multifocal ophthalmic lenses the term "power addition" or, in short "addition", is used to indicate the increase in optical power between the first and second above-mentioned points on the main meridian curve. Usually, the manufacturers of multifocal ophthalmic lenses provide a family of halffinished lenses, i.e. for lenses of the same family, the lens surface including the three abovementioned vision zones is machined initially on its own, with the other surface of a lens in the family being subsequently machined to a spherical or toroidal shape having curvature appropriate to each wearer of spectacles, depending on the prescriptions of an ophthalmologist. Within a family of lenses, power addition varies gradually from one lens to another in the family between a minimum.addition value and a maximum addition value. Usually, the minimum and maximum addition values are respectively 0.5 diopters and 3.5 diopters, and addition varies in 0.25 diopter steps from one lens to the next within a family. In this case, a family of lenses comprises 13 lenses.
The multifocal ophthalmic lenses which are commercially available at present come in two main families. In the first 2 family of lenses, progression length, i.e. the distance between the first and second above-mentioned points m the main meridian curve is constant, and the optical power progression gradient varies from one lens to am In said first family. More precisely, the higher the power addition, the faster the Increase in optical power along the main meridian cmrve between the first and second points thereof. An example of multifocal ophthalmic lenses In the first family is represented by OVARILUX 2" lenses manufactured by the Applidant (French patent FR 2 058 499 and its two certificates of addition FR 2 079 663 and FR 2 193 989, equivalent to United Kingdom Patents No. 1.295.304 and 1.403.675.
In the second family of lenses, the gradient of optical power progression along the main meridian curve is constant and identical for all of the lenses In said second family, regardless of their power addition. In this case, the progression length increases linearly with the value of the power addition. An example of lenses In the second family is described, for eyle, in Japanese patent JP 54-85743.
It Is well known that regardless of the family to which they belong, multifocal ophthalmic lenses inevitably suffer from optical aberrations (astigmatism, distortion, field curvature, etc.) which reduce visual comfort both In static vision and In dynamic vision. In addition, as the presbyopia of a long-sighted person increases, requiring the use of lenses having increasing power addition, the changeover to lenses having greater power addition usually requires an effort of physiological adaptation m the part of the spectacle wearer. The adaptation tLiw-z, may be from one to several days depending on the person.
In the past, manufacturers of multifocal ophthalmic lenses have directed their efforts mostly to improving visual comfort.
To this end, several means have already been proposed and used either separately or in combination, namely:
a) A suitable choice of progression law for the optical power along the main meridian curve.
i i i 1 4 3 b) optical modulation, i.e. distributing optical powers over the side portions of the surface of the lens, for example by an appropriat e selection of main curvatures of the surface along its horizontal sections (French patent FR 2 058 499, equivalent to UK. Patent No. 1.293.504.
c) Reducing surface-distortion so as to satisfy the orthoscopic condition (horizontal 1 and vertical 1.1n in the field of view remain horizontal and vertical). This may be obtained, for example, by providing the surface of the lens with one or more horizontal umbilical 1 and one or more vertical umbilical 1 (with the main radii of curvature of the surface at each point along such lines having the same value) and/or one or more horizontal lines and one or more vertical lines along which the prismatic effect is constant in value (at each point along a line of constant prismatic effect the plane tangential to the surfa makes a constant angle with a plan which Is horizontal or vertical). See French certificate of addition FP, 2 079 663, equivalent to UK. Patent No. 1.295.304.
d) Improving suitability for binocular vision by Inclining the main meridian curve from top to bottom of the lens surface away from the temporal region and towards the nasal region, and making the surface In such a manner that any two points on the surface which are equidistant from the main meridian curve in the horizontal direction have the same optical characteristics (see the above-mentioned French patents).
e) Improving visual comfort for dynamic vision (see French certificate of addition FR 2 193 989, equivalent to UK. Patent No. 1.403.675.
However, up till now, It does not appear that the problem of reducing the effort of physiological adaptation and the adaptation time when changing from one pair of lenses having a first value of power addition to another pair of lenses having a second, higher value of addition has been solved in a satisfactory manner, nor even that any attempt has been made to solve this problem.
i X 4 Starting from a surface structure providing optical modulation and providing satisfactory overall visual comfort, the object of the present Invention is to provide a multifocal ophthalmic lens belonging to a family which is different from the above-mentioned first and second families of lenses, providing improved visual comfort for a person suffering presbyopia, regardless of the value of power addition of the lens, with the family of lenses of the present Invention requiring a smaller effort of physiological adaptation-and a shorter adaptation time when a person whose presbyopia is Increasing changes lenses, going from one pair of lenses in accordance with the Invention having a first value of power addition to another pair of lenses in accordance with the invention having a second, higher value of power addition.
is After a long period of Investigation and numerous tests performed on a sample on about 200 people, the Applicant has discovered that this object can be obtained. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention provides a multifocal ophthalmic lens comprising an aspherigal surface having:
first vision zone for far vision; second vision zone for near vision; and third vision zone between said first and second zones for intermediate vision, with the curvature in said third vision zone varying progressively along a main meridian curve of power progression, with the first and third vision zones being delimited by a first curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a first point, and with the second and third vision zones being delimited by a second curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a second point; wherein the curvature of the main meridian curve begins to vary in the third vision zone at a third point which Is offset from the first point by a first predetermined distance dl - f (A); and wherein the curvature continues to vary In the second vision zone along an extension of the main meridian curve In the same direction of variation as along said main meridian 1 1 curve and down to a fourth point which is offset from the second point by a second predetermined distance d2 = h(A); the curvature difference between the second and fourth points having a predetermined value AC = g(A); and f(A), h(A), and g(A) being decreasing functions of the power addition A of the lens between said first and second points.
Preferably, the functions f(A) and h(A) are chosen in such a manner that the distance between said third and fourth points is also a decreasing function of the power addition A between said first and second points.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
An embodiment of the invention is described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a front view showing the aspherical surface of a lens in accordance with the present invention; Figures 2 to 4 show how scxne of the parameters used for defining the lens of Figure 1 vary as a function of lens power addition in a family of lenses, each having different power addition; Figure 5 shows isoastigmatism, curves of a lens in accordance with the invention having a power addition of 2 diopters; Figure 6 shows isopower curves of the Figure 5 lens; and Figure 7 shows the image of a uniform grid of squares as seen through the lens of Figures 5 and 6.
MORE DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The lens L shown in Figure 1 includes an aspherical surface S which may be concave or convex and which is preferably continuous. In conventional manner, the top portion of the surface S comprises a first spherical or aspherical vision zone VL whose curvature is suitable for far vision, and the bottom portion of the surface S comprises a spherical or aspherical second vision zone VP whose curvature is suitable for near vision. Preferably, the optical power of the zone U is substantially constant, i.e. at any point in said zone, the power differs from the nominal power of said zone by no more 6 than a predetermined value as defined by the following standards: DIN 58 203 part 4, and AFNOR NF S 11-004. In conventional manner, there is a third vision zone VI between the zones VL and VP and having a curvature which is suitable for intermediate vision and which varies along a main meridian curve MP passing substantially through the middle of the zone VI. Preferably, the curve MP is an umbilical line.. However, It should be understood that it is acceptable for each point of said curve to have surface astigmatism which.does not exceed 0.25 diopters. When the surface S is convex, the curvature of the main meridian curve MP increases (its radius of curvature decreases) from the top towards the bottom along said main meridian curve. However, when the surface S is a concave surface, the curvature decreases (the radius of curvature increases) from the top towards the bottom along said main meridian curve MP. As shown in Figure 1, the main meridian MP is disposed at a small angle relative to the vertical, sloping from the temporal region towards the nasal region of the wearer of the spectacles (the lens shown in Figure 1 is intended for use by the right eye of a wearer of spectacles). As also shown in Figure 1, the vision zones VL and W are delimited by a first curve Cl which intersects the main meridian curve MP at a first point Al, and along which the two zones VL and VI meet one another in a.manner which is preferably continuous.
Similarly, the two vision zones VI and VP are delimited by a second curve C2 which intersects the main meridian curve MP at a second point A2, and along which the two zones VI and VP meet one another in a manner which is preferably continuous.
In order to define the surface S of the lens of the present invention, it is normal practice to begin by selecting the variation law or progression law for the curvature of the main meridian curve MP. As usual, the variation law may be expressed by a monotonic function which may be linear or otherwise. However, when determining the variation law, the curvature of the main meridian curve MP is caused to begin varying (to increase if S is a convex surface or to decrease if S is a concave surface) no longer at the point Al as has 7 Previously been the case, but at a point A3 which is situated in the vision zone VI and which is spaced apart from the point Al by a first predetermined distance dl. In addition, the variation law is chosen in such a manner that the curvature continues to vary along an extension mpy of the main meridian curve MP in the same direction of variation as along said curve MP, down to a fourth Point A4 which is situated in the vision zone VP and which is spaced apart from the point A2 by a second predetermined distance d2, with the difference in curvature between the points A2 and A4 having a predetermined value AC. More precisely, the distances dl and d2 and the curvature difference AC are decreasing functions of the power addition A between the points Al and A2. In other words, in the surface s of the lens of the invention, the curvature of the main meridian curve MP begins to increase (or to decrease) at a point A3 which is offset from the point Al towards the bottom of the surface S by an amount which increases with decreasing power addition A of the lens L. Similarly, the curvature of the main meridian curve MP continues to increase (or to decrease) down to a point A4 which is offset away from the point A2 towards the bottom of the surface S by an amount which increases with decreasing power addition A of the lens. In addition, the smaller the power addition A, the greater the curvature difference AC between the points A2 and A4. Thus, in a lens of the present invention, the vision zone VP normally reserved for near vision receives extra power compared with the nominal power addition A between the points Al and A2.
Preferably, the distance D between the points A3 and A4 is also a decreasing function of the power addition A between the points Al and A2. The functions defining the distances dl and d2 and the curvature difference AC may have the following form, for example:
(1) dl = f(A) = a[(Amax - A)/b]3 (2) W = h(A) = d + (Amax - A)2 (3) AC = g(A) = K[1 - e-c(l - A/Amax)3] in which: the distances dl and W are expressed in millimeters and are measured along the main meridian curve MP or along its 1 8 extension MP'; A is the value (expres sed in diopters) of the power addition between the points Al and A2 for a given lens of the invention; Amax is the maximum value expressed in diopters of said power addition between the points Al and A2 for a family of lenses of the invention; Ac is expressed in m-l; a, b, c, and d are constants; and K is a coefficient which depends on the value of the refractive index n of the material from which the lens is made, such that:
(4) K = (APmax) / (n - 1) where Annax is the maximum value expressed in diopters of the additional increase in power desired between the points A2 and A4. Preferably, the constants a, b, c, and d, and Apwax are chosen to have the following values: a - 4; b 3; c - 8; d = 1 mm; APmax = 0.5 diopters; thus giving K 1 for a glass having a refractive index n of 1.S. Figures 2, 3, and 4 respectively show how dl, AC, and W vary as a function of the power addition A for the above-mentioned values of the constants a, b, c, and d, and Apmax, and for Amax = 3.5 diopters. Table 1 below summarizes the values of the parameters characterizing a family of lenses of the invention, having power additions at 0.5 diopter intervals between 0.5 diopters and 3.5 diopters. In Table 1, AP designates the extra power addition provided by the curvature variation AC between the points A2 and A4 [AP = (n - 1)ACI, and A' designates the total power addition between the points A3 and A4 (A' = A + AP). In addition, in Table 1, D designates the distance, in millimeters, between the points A3 and A4, i.e. the length of the portion of the main meridian curve MP and of its extension MP' along which the optical power of the lens increases. This distance D can easily be calculated from equations (1) and (2) and taking account of the fact that:
(5) D = DO - D1 + D2 where DO is the distance between the points Al and A2, said distance DO having the same value for all the lenses of a family of lenses of the present invention. For example, DO may be equal to 20 mm. In the table of Figure 1, D has been calculated using this value of DO.
:1 1 v 9 A (diopters) 0.5 dl (mm) 4 W (m) 10 D (mm) 26 Ac (M-') 0.994 AP (diopters) 0.497 TABLE 1
1 1.5 2.3 1.2 2 0.5 3.3 2.5 3 0.15 0.02 2 1.2 3.5 0 7.2 1 24.9 23.8 22.8 21.9 21.2 21 0.946 0.775 0.466 0.171 0.023 0 0.473 0.388 0.233 0.086 0.012 0 A' (diopters) =l 1.47 1.89 2.23 2.59 3.01 3.5 From Table 1, it can be seen that the distance D between the points A3 and A4 decreases as the addition A increases. By way of comparison, it is recalled that in the first prior family of lenses (French patents 2 058 499, 2 079 663, and 2 183 989, and their equivalents as specified above), the optical power varies only between the points Al and A2, and the distance DO between these two points is constant. Similarly, it is recalled that in the second prior family of lenses (Japanese patent 54- 85743), in which the power gradient is constant and has the same value for all the lenses of said second family, the distance DO between the points A1 and A2 between which the optical power of the lens varies, increases with increasing power addition A.
Once the progression law has been chosen, and the distances dl and d2, and the curvature difference AC between the points A2 and A4 have been determined as mentioned above, the remainder of the surface S of the lens L may be determined in conventional manner, for example as described in the Applicants' above- mentioned French patents.
Account should be taken, in particular, of binocular vision, and the surfaces of lenses in accordance with the invention should be designed in such a manner that, with reference to Figure 1, two corresponding points of the surface, i.e. two points which are equidistant in the horizontal direction from the main meridian curve MP have the same optical characteristics, and in particular a vertical prismatic effect of the same value.
Figure 5 shows the isoastigrnatism curves of a lens of the present invention for the right eye, the lens having an outside diameter of 60 mm and a power addition A of 2 diopters (in reality, it has a total power addition A' of about 2.2 diopters, see Table 1) for the case where a, b, c, d, Amax, APmax, n, and DO have the above-indicated values. Figure 6 shows the isopower curves of the Figure 5 lens, and Figure 7 shows the image of a grid having uniform squares as seen through said lens.
In Figures 5, 6, and 7, the main meridian curve MP Is shown vertically in order to simplify the figures. In practice, the lens in accordance with the Invention whose optical properties and characteristics are shown in Figures 5 to 7 is a lens Intended for use with a person's right eye.
Tests performed_by the Applicant using lenses of the invention on a relatively large number of people have shown not only that the people being tested had a sensation of greater visual comfort than with previously known multifocal lenses, but also that as their presbyopia increased and they needed to change lenses for lenses having higher power addition, they suffered much less discomfort and adapted physiologically more quickly to their new, hig"r power lenses than with conventional multifocal lexises. Although it is difficult to explain this improvement given that it is practically impossible to express it in figures, an attenpt at an explanation may be made as follows. With multifocal lenses of the present invention', regardless of the power addition value A, the length D of the portion of the main meridian curve MP along which curvature, i.e. optical power, varies Is greater than in conventional multifocal lenses. As a result, the deformations of the surface S due to the variations in curvature along the main meridian curve MP, and thus the optical aberrations, are more spread out in the vertical direction and therefore vary more gently than in conventional multifocal lenses. For equal power addition values A, the power gradient between the points A3 and A4 of a lens of the present invention is less than the power gradient between the points A1 and A2 of a prior ar t multifocal lens. Further, compared with the first prior family of multifocal lenses, in 1 i 1 11 which the distance DO between the points A1 and A2 is constant, and in which the power gradient between these two points cxnlently increases when the power addition value A increases, with the family of multifocal lenses of the invention the value of the power gradient between the points A3 and A4 changes much less-than it does in prior multifocal lenses of said first family when the user changes from a lens having a first value of power addition to another lens having a second value of power addition which is higher than the first.
This result is completely unexpected when it can be seen from Table 1 above that the value of the distance D decreases as the value of the power addition A increases, whereas the value of the distance DO remains constant in prior multifocal lenses of said first family. By way of comparison, Table 2 below shows the values of the mean power gradient G between the points A3 and A4 in a family of multifocal lenses of the invention (G = A'/D), together with the values of the mean power gradient G' between the points A1 and A2 of said first prior family of multifocal lenses (G' = A/DO) for different power addition values A lying in the range 0.5 diopters to 3.5 diopters, and assuming that the distance between the points Al and A2 between which optical power varies in lenses of said first prior family has the same value of DO as in lenses of the invention, i.e. 20 mm in the example under consideration. In Table 2, the values of G have been calculated on the basis of the values of A' and D given in Table 1.
TABLE 2
A (diopters) 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 A'(diopters) M1 1.47 1.89 2.23 2.59 3.01 3.5 G (diopters/mm) 0.038 0.059 0.079 0.098 0.118 0.142 0.166 G'(diopters/mm) 0.025 0.050 0.075 0.100 0.125 0.150 0.175 Naturally, the embodit of the present invention described above has been given purely by way of non-limiting example, and numerous modifications may be made by the person skilled in the art without thereby going beyond the scope of the present invention. Thus, in particular, the constants a, b, 9, and d may have values other than those indicated above, 1 12 in order to ensure that AC and AP have higher values than those given in Table 1 at high values of power addition, e.g. AC = 0.3 m-1 for A = 2.5 diopters, AC 0.2 m-1 for A = 3 diopters, and AC = 0.12 m-1 for A 3.5 diopters.
I f i is i 1 i 4 13 CLA" 1/ A multifocal ophthalmic lens comprising an aspherical surface having:
first vision zone for far vision; second vision zone for near vision; and third vision zone between said first and second zones for intermediate vision, with the curvature in said third vision zone varying progressively along a main meridian curve of power progression, with the first and third vision zones being delimited by a first curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a first point, and with the second and third vision zones being delimited by a second curve intersecting the main meridian curve at a second point; wherein the curvature of the main meridian curve begins to vary in the third vision zone at a third point which is offset from the first point by a first predetermined distance dl = f(A); and wherein the curvature continues to vary in the second vision zone along an extension of the main meridian curve in the same direction of variation as along said main meridian curve and down to a fourth point which is offset from the second point by a second predetermined distance d2 = h(A); the curvature difference between the second and fourth points having a predetermined value AC = g(A); and f(A), h(A), and g(A) being decreasing functions of the power addition A of the lens between said first and second points.
2/ A multifocal ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the functions f(A) and h(A) are chosen in such a manner that the distance D between said third and fourth points is also a decreasing function of the power addition A between said first and second points.
3/ A multifocal ophthalmic lens according to claim 2, wherein the functions f(A), g(A), and h(A)-are given by the following equations:
i 1 14 (1) dl = f (A) = a [ (Amax - A) /b] 3 (2) W = h(A) = d + (Amax - A) 2 (3) AC = g(A) = K[, _ -c(l - A/)3] In which a, b, c, and d are constants, K is a coefficient depending on the value of the refractive index n of the material from which the lens is made such that:
K = APmax/ (n - 1) where Apmax is a predetermined maximum value of the additional increase in power between the second and fourth points, and Amax is the maximum power addition between the first and second points for a given family of lenses.
4/ A multifocal ophthalmic lens according to claim 3, wherein a = 4, b = 3, c = 8, d = 1 mm, APmax = 0.5 diopters, and Amax = 3.5 diopters, with the distances.dl and d2 as calculated by the equations (1) and (2) respectively being measured along the main meridian curve or its extension and being expressed In millimeters, and with the curvature difference AC being expressed in m-1.
5/ A multifocal ophthalmic lens substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
Publisheci 19B93 at The Patenz Mh,..e. State House. ' 36 71 High H-'Dorn. London V.1C1R 4TP. F'arther copies may be obtained frOM The PC-ent Office, q1p= Brareb. St 11-ary Cray. Orpington, 7ent BW- 3RD T-rinted by Mal,. ip'ex Eedl---iiT-Ies ltd. St Ma.17 Cray. Kent. Con. 1'8-.
1:
i 1 i 1 r i i p t i